## Validator as a Service

### Secure key management

Within the Polkadot/Substrate ecosystem, the solution to this complex issue has
been the introduction of [a trinity of keys different
keypairs](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-cryptography) a trinity of
keys: stash, controller, and session keys. This innovative design permits
validators to operate securely without exposing their actual wallet keys on the
internet.

Instead, the controller wallet provides the Polkadot client with the
authority to generate session keys, dedicated exclusively for conducting
blockchain validation tasks. A significant advantage of this architecture is
its dynamic nature, enabling easy key rotation through a straightforward
authorship_rotateKeys RPC call.

## The Role of Trusted Execution Environments

To fortify this system, one could consider implementing a Trusted Execution
Environment (TEE) or secure enclave that can conduct automatic integrity tests.
If attestation fails, keys can be rotated and the validation process paused,
thereby protecting the security and integrity of the overall system. However,
the practical implementation of such a solution comes with its own set of
complexities and challenges.

While TEEs and secure enclaves provide an attractive prospect due to their
ability to securely isolate and process sensitive data, they are not immune to
threats. Side-channel attacks, in particular, can pose significant risks in a
decentralized network where trust is distributed across numerous nodes.

## Learning from Tendermint's Key Management System

The Tendermint KMS (Key Management System) is a notable example of an alternate
approach to key management, which provides some valuable insights. Tendermint
KMS is specifically designed for Tendermint applications like Cosmos Validators
and offers high-availability access to validator signing keys, double-signing
prevention, and optional hardware security module storage for validator keys.

It is crucial to note that while the Tendermint KMS approach may not be
directly applicable to the Polkadot/Substrate ecosystem due to differences in
system design, the principles and techniques it employs can offer valuable
lessons. For example, adopting strategies for high-availability access and
double-signing prevention could potentially enhance Polkadot's key management
framework.

## YubiKey's HSM2: A Potential Game Changer

The introduction of YubiKey's HSM2 module offers a significant leap forward in
secure key management. As the world's smallest Hardware Security Module (HSM),
it provides robust security solutions that traditional, larger HSMs struggle to
deliver. It strengthens the protection of cryptographic keys, providing secure
generation, storage, and management of digital keys. With support for PKCS#11,
the HSM2 integrates quickly with hardware-backed security, providing a
comprehensive open-source toolbox for cryptographic operations.

By leveraging the security advantages of the YubiKey's HSM2 module and the
strategic insights provided by systems like Tendermint KMS, we can navigate the
complexities of secure key management in Validator as a Service. These
approaches allow us to bolster security, provide a cost-effective solution, and
reinforce key management in the face of the unique challenges posed by a
decentralized network.

## Solution

Ideally, the controller key, which allows the assignment of session keys, would
be stored and managed by the HSM. This is an important aspect of maintaining
security in the Polkadot/Substrate system. Here's how it would work:

Key Generation: The controller key, like other keys, would be generated within
the secure confines of the HSM. This guarantees the randomness of the key and
the security of the key generation process.

Key Storage: Once generated, the controller key would remain inside the HSM.
This means it cannot be extracted or accessed directly, adding an additional
layer of security.

Key Usage: Whenever the controller key needs to be used, for instance, to
generate or assign session keys, the operation is performed within the HSM.
This ensures that the key material never leaves the HSM, thereby maintaining
the integrity and confidentiality of the key.

Key Rotation: The HSM allows for secure key rotation. Regularly changing the
controller key enhances the security of the system, making it more resilient to
potential attacks.

Managing the controller key within the HSM not only enhances security but also
simplifies key management. It streamlines the process of assigning session keys
and makes the process more secure by reducing the exposure of key material to
potential threats.
